So now that we've looked at
multiple, very sophisticated
examples of applying
advanced features
in the computable
futures framework,
let's take stock of what we've
seen and wrap everything up.
We'll start by talking
about the pros,
the benefits of using the Java
completable futures framework.
And as we do this,
we'll evaluate them
relative to the parallel
streams framework,
although we could evaluate
them relative to other things.
But we'll focus on comparing
completable futures
with parallel streams.
So one of the things that
completable futures do
a really nice job
of is, they greatly
simplify the programming
of asynchronous operations
to give us better
structure, better controls,
so we don't just have
things randomly happening,
but we can do things in a
much more linear manner.
Obviously, as we've
shown now multiple times,
they support
dependent actions that
trigger upon the completion
of asynchronous operations.
And these asynchronous
operations, as you've seen,
can be forked.
They can be changed.
They can be joined in a
relatively intuitive way.
And in fact, they actually allow
asynchronous programs to appear
much like synchronous programs.
So as you can see here, we
have this chain of methods,
and even though some
of those methods
are taking place in
other threads of control,
we can program them in a
relatively synchronous way.
It's just that they're
running asynchronously,
but we're dealing
with their outputs
in a synchronous way,
which is really cool.
We also have this
wonderful ability
to run operations in parallel
in some type of thread pool.
And we've got a lot
of choices here.
We can either choose to use
the common fork join pool,
or some user-specified fork join
pool, or a cache thread pool
or a fixed size thread pool
or a custom thread pool.
You name it, we get a
choice of what to do.
There's no explicit
synchronization or threading
required, often.
Sometimes, there'll be some
synchronization required.
But if we need
synchronization, we're
almost always able to
leverage various Java class
libraries to do the locking
and protect our dangerously
shared mutable state from
concurrency and race conditions
and other types of hazards.
Perhaps the main
reason, however,
to use completable futures is,
they're a lot more efficient
than parallel streams.
So they run a lot faster, as you
can see from the examples here,
comparing and contrasting the
completable future version
with the parallel
streams version.
We get a performance win
alternating between the two
different versions of
completable future,
but they're always faster
than parallel streams.
Of course, your
mileage may vary,
and I strongly recommend
you look at the Java
micro-benchmarking
harness to learn more
about these kinds of things.
It's also the case that
combining completable futures
with sequential
streams is often a win.
We saw that here.
Streams can be used to guide
the overall flow of control,
and the completable
futures can be
used to efficiently perform
asynchronous operations
in parallel.
So we get the best of
both worlds, if you will.
In my experience, trying
to combine parallel streams
and completable futures
tends to be overkill.
It's like wearing 75 seat belts.
You don't need them all.
You probably need
a couple, or one.
Just make sure you wear one.
So they work well together,
but parallel streams
and completable futures
probably ends up
having too much concurrency, and
it just cancels each other out
eventually.